# machine-learning
Machine learning projects
This Github link contains the different projects I have been working on. The various projects I have covered here includes Twitter Sentiment analysis, Decision tree Classifier, K-Means clustering and Time series algorithm. The various projects I have covered are briefly explained below:
1. Twitter Senitment analysis - For this project firstly gather the twitter api. Through this twitter api's I will fetch 100 tweets to with a specific keyword entered by the user. This tweets are then collected and written in a new CSV file called trainingdata. Now our training dataset is ready for the preprocesing phase. Here the the stop words are removed and tokens are being generated using the NLTK and re library. These data is then divided into the training and test data. Now the Naive Bayes Classifier is applied the the positive and negative sentiments are classified on traianing dataset and then I fit the model on the test set. The accuracy of the model is then calculated.
2. Decision tree - I am having a Titanic dataset which contains the details of the passengers  such as name, sex, age, Ticket, fare, cabin, etc along with the detail weather they survived the titanic crash or not. Converted all the categorical data into numerical data so as to analyse the data. To define the decision tree we are using Gini Index method which helps to decide the nodes and leaves of the decision tree. K-fold cross validation technique is used for assessing how the results of a statistical analysis will generalize to an independent data set. Then we train the decision tree model with training datasets and later test the same using the test dataset. The model gives an accuracy of 82.49
3. K-means Clustering - To perform K-means clustering algorithm here I have a dataset containing college names, private or not, grade_rate, etc.Using K-means we intend to find different clusters of college with same features. Firstly I used label encoder to convert all the categorical data to numerical data.Then I plotted several scatter plot to get a understanding of the relations between the features. And then I created a K-means Clustering model with number of clusters is equal to 2.Finally we got the centoids of the final clusters we desired. 
 
